about them to come on the graph in the Gavill,
the Senator DeBorgeshot takes his place.
And there's Mr. Mark Gallium.
The Secretary of the Democratic Party.
And Senator Mark.
May we welcome to order?
For the information of the newspaper,
men, we will close at 12.15.
Mr. Norris, that's 12.30.
We can give the time to get over to the joint station
of Congress to hear Emperor Harry Celessi.
And we will resume promptly at 2 o'clock as you do.
So the recess this noon will be 12.15 until 2.
It's 12.30 from 2.
To our guests in the committee room,
the chair would like to extend the customary morning greetings
and a word of welcome.
And to point out to you, if you are here for the first time,
that we have a standing committee room
against any audible manifestations
of approval or disapproval at any time in any manner.
And the officers in the room and the plan clothesman
have instructions from the committee
to immediately escort from the room politely,
but for what?
Anyone who violates the terms by which you enter the committee room,
which is to refrain entirely from manifestations of approval
or disapproval.
The audience has been splendid.
I must say that from the standpoint of audience,
non-participation needs have been the most welcome.
These have been the most welcome hearing of the chair
has ever known as non-capital hill.
And I want to salute once again the capital police
and their associates and our friends in the audience
for conforming completely with the committee room.
To the country notwithstanding,
we want the guards to remove from the room immediately
anybody, if in a pre-how a day's spirit this morning,
you should violate that standing admiration of the chair.
You left off as of yesterday with counsel Jenkins
engaging in direct examination of Mr. Corn,
a witness on the so-called McCarthy Corn side of the country
ratio.
He will continue with this time with his direct examination,
which he tells me he will conclude.
A very short time, so wonderful,
at which time will wipe off his smile,
put on his crown and proceed with a crossing examination.
Counsel Jenkins.
The stone, I think, I have only two questions to ask you.
One is with respect to the leaf payments.
However the payment to you, I'll certain money by Mr. Adams,
father, theater, and high spite tickets.
Because I understand if you have another statement
you desire to make with reference to that,
so you can give it a grain.
So I don't believe we brought out the fact that
the repayment actually was made on February 18th
and what the circumstances of it were.
Now, is that all you hear to say about that is cool?
Well, sir, if you think it is relevant,
I would relate the payment to that money
and what Mr. Adams said in connection with paying it to me
at that time.
The committee may consider it relevant
and I ask you to do so.
Mr. Adams, I told you yesterday about the February 12 telephone call
and Mr. Adams told me to find out why I was ducking him
and why he didn't say me.
I did see him at a subcommittee hearing,
which I have necessity attended,
and which he attended on February 18th.
He took a roll of bills and stuck them in my pocket.
As I recall, he was sitting in the jury box of the courtroom
where the hearing was being held,
and I was walking by the morning, he said,
hello, and I said hello, and he reached over
and just stuck this roll of bills in my pocket.
I don't remember which pocket it was, he does.
The private needs to hear this and handed it a letter
and he should leave it to the time,
and it says it can pay some good news for Mr. Welch
and it has the attention of Mr. Welch
so that he can carry this good news with him over the weekend.
This is a gesture to me by Senator McCarty.
My dear Senator Month,
a gesture to Honorable Carly Months,
and the Office Building,
Washington, 25, DC.
I read only the first two paragraphs that I can tell
from those two paragraphs that are going to be written
to Mr. Welch and I want to send you the Boston happy.
I just send them on.
As you know, I have felt very strongly about the vicious
and completely unfounded attacks by Mr. Stevens
and Mr. Adams of our Mr. Frank Car,
the chief of the investigating subcommittee staff.
I was a number of senators,
so every pointed out on Wednesday, May 26th,
Adams and Stevens presented absolutely no evidence
of any wrongdoing on the part of Mr. Car.
When the senator is very properly dismissed the charges
against Frank Car on the ground that they had been proven false,
they couple that move without,
if that time appeared to be the logical course,
I've also released him as a witness,
so he could get back on the job of directing
the important pending investigations of the subcommittee.
Mr. Car feels that while he has been cleared by the subcommittee
of all the Adams-Dven charges,
nevertheless, he should be called as a witness.
If after all the evidence on both sides is in,
any member of the subcommittee or any principal wishes
to question him, he feels as I do that while this investigation
was deliberately and cleverly planned
by those who had a personal interest in side-tracking,
I suppose you have come in,
every member of the staff for this subcommittee
should be available to testify.
While I strongly urge that the Sony Trump-Step-Falced charges
against Mr. Car should be dismissed,
I have made it very clear that I would advise all members
of the staff to appear before this committee, if called.
As you know, Mr. Car,
I would like to take a card to note part of the discussions
concerning his dismissal as a principal and as a witness.
His position always has been that as an employee of the subcommittee,
he would follow the instructions of this committee
and would not volunteer advice unless asked for it.
However, he was deeply disturbed to learn
that this committee's action was interpreted by some,
to mean that he would not be available to testify.
As the chairman knows, while I deal with it technically,
it was improper to dismiss the Henselmatter before I had an opportunity
to give testimony thereon,
I made no objection because I thought that the President
of Sikh Mishra Yardin, which precluded Mr. Hensel,
testifying to any conversations, planning and so forth,
which we know the matters of the executive branch in himself
are the members of the executive branch in himself,
major impossible ever to get the whole truth
and that therefore the sharing should be ended
as soon as possible so that we could get back to our work.
I want to make it clear at this time, however,
that if any senator or any interested pocket desires to question me
with regard to the Henselmatter,
I shall be ready and willing to answer such questions.
You are very truly Joe McCarthy, U.S. senator.
The letter will be made part of the record,
and I think that should clarify the atmosphere Mr. Welch
and everybody should be happy and confirms the statement
that I made the other day when I said,
sonatorial bodies are reversible bodies.
They do have the facility to meet problems as they arise.
I think in fairness to Mr. Kowal,
I should make one personal word and met him in the hall
last night after this and said something in a jocular manner
about how it's up to be an ex-witness
or something of that kind or ex-principable
and he told me at that time that he had never quite understood
his position at the committee table
because he was here allegedly as a principal,
but it had ever been called upon and they round robin
of ten minutes of questioning.
He had no counsel,
and he did want me to know however that he felt
that he should have an opportunity to testify
if anybody felt that he should.
So I think the fact should be said in fairness to Frank Carr
so that the strong, solid man Mr. Welch
is available to you at any time that you want to have him testify.
Mr. Kowal, you may proceed, Mr. Smith.
Now, we'll take hold of you, maybe.
You're answering the question.
Yes, sir.
Mr. Adams took the money in my pocket.
And, toward that, I saw Mr. Adams out in the car
and I asked him what it was all about.
He told me that he wanted me to take the money
and was for the theatre tickets and for the price-like tickets.
I told him that as far as the theatre tickets were concerned,
I would send the bill on to him
or let him know how much it was
and didn't have to be concerned about that.
As far as the price-like ticket was concerned,
he was my guest and there was a number of months before
and there was certainly no need for him to at this date
give me any money for the ticket.
He told me that on the price-like ticket,
he knew that Dave Shrine had paid for the ticket.
I told him he was quite wrong
that Mr. Shrine had not paid for the ticket,
but I had paid for the ticket.
Mr. Adams, I might have seen him had jockily
I assume suggested that Dave should pay for the ticket.
I explained to Mr. Adams that I had paid for the ticket today,
but that's not.
Mr. Adams said, well, anyway,
I want to have all worked for the effect.
I want to have all accounts between us close.
It's very important to you and it's very important to me.
I guess what he meant by that,
I didn't quite understand it.
He said to me, I hope,
words of the effect, I hope you will never know
what I do mean by that.
But some people are trying to get me to do something.
And I hope you don't know what it is.
I hope you never find out.
But we have to get the record straight now
or we'll be embarrassing to us both later on.
And under those circumstances,
I did not give him back the money.
I kept it.
I was wondering if that conversation was cool.
The date of that conversation, sir,
was February the 18th, 1954,
was the hearing at which major urban arrests was hit
in public session before the subcommittee.
I believe it was the date of the arrest hearing.
I believe that to be February 18th.
Did you question him about who was trying to get him
to do something?
No, sir.
He was never have to do.
He was very mysterious about the whole thing.
I did not understand in any detail what it was about.
And he pressed this money on me on that occasion
and made it very clear that he was determined
that I should take it
and that there were very important reasons why I should.
And I took it and that was that.
Is it cool that you ever have a conversation with Mr. Adams
with respect to the major Perez case?
I did, sir.
Who was that?
The first time I told Mr. Adams about major arrests
was in December of 1953.
I believe some time in the early part of December 1953.
Would you relate what was said on that occasion?
Yes, sir.
I was in a discussion with Mr. Adams about this,
as I recall it, about this order,
permitting the commissioning of communists.
And I suggested to Mr. Adams that there were
a number of communists who currently held commissions in the Army.
Mr. Adams said that that was completely untrue
that there was not a single communist
to hold a commission in the Army.
I told him he was quite wrong.
He asked me if I would give him the name of one.
I gave him the name of one.
I gave him the name of major, Irving Perez.
He said he knew nothing about the situation,
but he was positive that I was wrong.
He said he checked on it.
I talked to him about it a few days later.
I don't remember exactly when, sir.
And he said that he was taking action on the Perez case.
I said, well, that means I'm right, doesn't it?
He is a communist.
Mr. Adams said, well, we're taking action on the case
and the thing will be taken care of.
I told the chairman about that.
I told him about he knew about the Perez case.
I told him about this.
I told him I had told Mr. Adams.
The chairman told me that we should give Mr. Adams
a certain period of time to take care of the case himself
within the Army and get rid of Perez.
I think the chairman mentioned the month
or six weeks something along the line.
I mentioned the case to Mr. Adams on a number of subsequent occasions,
including some early and January.
They finally came a time in mid-January and after that
when Senator McCarthy kept questioning me
as to whether they had gotten rid of Perez.
I told him that as far as I knew they had not.
The senator said he had waited long enough
and that he wanted a subpoena served on Perez
and he wanted him to produce before the subcommittee.
On Saturday morning, January 30th, I believe we checked the date
and that's it, in New York an executive session.
Mr. Carl or the senator, I don't know him,
invited Mr. Adams or some representative of the Army
to be present to see whether or not this major was a communist
and just what his testimony should be.
No representative of the Army came.
Major Perez came and then both the fifth amendment
and then both the fifth amendment, just about everything.
Communist Party membership, organizational activities,
whether he was using his post in the Army
to recruit soldiers into the Communist Party,
whether he was holding Communist Party meetings at his home
while he was stationed down at Camp Kilmer.
Whether he had been a communist when he was promoted from Captain
to Major and things along those lines.
The testimony elicited the fact that in August of May,
that Major Perez when he was commissioned there as a captain
caught an open record as a communist.
He was not a secret communist, he had an open record.
The files of the New York City Police Department
which were available to the Army, the G2, contained statements
by informants showing that Perez had attended
Communist leadership school.
Perez had been referred to in the daily worker
as not a couple of years or a year or so before
as they contributed to Communist defense law.
Spited out of his commission to Captain.
In August, it developed when the Army questioned
about his communist activity.
Perez claimed the fifth amendment to the Army
and in spite of the fact that he claimed the fifth amendment
to the Army, they promoted him to the rank of Major.
A couple of months thereafter.
Senator McCoffee, the foot of mildly,
was deeply distressed about the situation.
And this was a Saturday.
I believe on Monday, Monday morning,
President McCoffee sent an open letter to Mr. Stevens
who was then in the far east,
and could expect it back in a day or so.
Just to Mr. Stevens' office,
stated all the facts in the Perez case
and demanded that there be a court module of Major Perez
and that action be taken against all of those responsible
for commissioning, promoting, and promoting this
Fifth Amendment commune.
What was the agreement that I believe it was February 1, 1954?
Does the senator ever receive a reply to that letter?
He did, sir.
Do you know the senator has a reply?
The senator of the reply was a very long letter.
I might say it said nothing.
The senator had requested the names of those
who had promoted who were responsible for the promotion of Perez,
for responsible for the cancellation of his orders,
for responsible for commissioning him.
Mr. Stevens' letter was a long letter,
but it did not give any of the names,
and of course to this day,
of those names.
Perez has been in honor of this charge.
That's the important point, sir.
Senator McCarthy wrote his letter.
He was in the February 1,
demanding that Perez not be honorably discharged,
but saying that he should be court-washable
for his conduct as an officer in the army,
in defying the army by claiming the Fifth Amendment first
of the army and then claiming the Fifth Amendment before this committee.
And for other acts of communist activities,
Mr. Stevens was out of the country
and the letter was handled by Mr. Adda,
and Mr. Stevens be here.
I know that from talking with Senator McCarthy,
that Mr. Kraw was in touch with Mr. Adda about this matter,
and that Mr. Kraw,
earnestly, if Mr. Adda not to allow an honorable discharge
to be issued to this Fifth Amendment Communist Major,
he called him on numerous occasions.
On February 1 and February 2,
there were a few phone calls, a number of phone calls.
Finally, we heard from other sources, Mr. Jenkins,
that in spite of all this and in spite of the senator's letter,
and before Mr. Stevens had a chance to return,
that Major Perez was to be given an honorable discharge
on the afternoon of February 2.
I understand that Mr. Kraw, telephone Mr. Adams,
and beg them for the last time,
so telephone Mr. Adda can thank you all for your return.
Till Mr. Stevens got back,
saying it would be a very bad mistake
to give an honorable discharge to this Fifth Amendment Communist.
Mr. Adams declined to do this,
and I believe that on February 2,
an honorable discharge was given to Major Perez.
I then know from Senator McCarthy, sir,
that I believe on the night of February 3,
or February 2, or February 3rd,
I think probably the second.
Senator McCarthy, telephone Mr. Adams,
and Mr. Adam Hall,
and told Mr. Adams in no uncertain terms
of what he thought of the manner in which Mr. Adam had handled the press case.
Mr. Adams was directly responsible for failure
to delay the honorable discharge despite open and public warning
by Senator McCarthy that this honorable discharge
would be a very serious mistake in that case.
And the action on it should be held up until Mr. Stevens returned.
And I know that that conversation took place.
On the 18th, Mr. Adams was in New York when Major Perez appeared in public session.
He didn't seem to want much.
February, and that's the date Mr. Adams gave me back that money, sir.
He paid me that money.
Then General Swicker appeared that afternoon,
and I won't go into that other than to say General Swicker
had been cooperative with representatives of the staff,
a representative of the staff of the subcommittee
who had privately interviewed General Swicker.
I believe these Saturday before General Swicker testified.
General Swicker had told this investigator a lot of facts
and a lot of important facts about how this First Amendment Communist had been promoted.
And other things concerning this First Amendment Communist treatment in the Army.
When General Swicker appeared before the committee,
he was asked the very same question,
and he just didn't give any answers.
Just was quiet about the whole thing.
Mr. Adams was next to him advising him,
and it became very apparent from the questioning of the witnesses
that Mr. Adams had been working on them the previous afternoon,
and I believe it was the previous afternoon the day before Mr. Adams had gone up to speed him.
And Senator McCarthy concluded that Mr. Adams had told them to keep quiet
and not give the committee the information.
That did not help relations between Senator McCarthy and Mr. Adams at that point
and the senator was quite annoyed about it.
And he also told the General Swicker to develop.
And on the next night, sir, February the 19th,
Mr. Carr from New York spoke to Mr. Adams.
Then called me and asked me if I would call Mr. Adams and talk to him
to say that we could not avoid the further questioning of people like General Swicker
and get in instead the person who had given General Swicker and others
the orders to keep quiet.
I called Mr. Adams and I told Mr. Adams that
in just the General Swicker and the officers involved that the proper persons to produce
was the man who had given the orders to silence the General Swicker and these other officers
and let that man tell why he had ordered them to defy the committee.
Mr. Adams did not agree and I remember we got into a,
we're supposed to be a short conversation,
but we got into an extended discussion of the forensic case
in the course of which I told Mr. Adams that I had warned him about that case for a period of months
and that he had done nothing about it.
He admitted that.
He said I think he had written one letter or made one phone call
and it's forgotten to follow it up or haven't followed it up.
Then I took up the question of the honorable discharge
and Mr. Adams said, well, he just wasn't going to delay it and he didn't delay it and that was bad.
And he said anyway, you seem to think the proof on Perez was awfully strong, I don't.
I told him that I couldn't think of much stronger proof on anyone on a major or a captain in the army
than the fact he claimed the Fifth Amendment before the army itself on a typical army
loyalty to the United States form.
The fact that the police filed contains the statements by New York City policemen
who had been under cover agents and communists dealt with Perez
that the daily work I mentioned in by name is a contribute at the communist defense fund
and that he involved the First Amendment before the committee.
And I added this statement that I was sure that the FBI had full information on Perez
which had been available to Mr. Adams and to the people in the army.
At that point Mr. Adams made some derogatory comments concerning the FBI
and now pays attention to their report.
Anyway, they're just a lot of hearsay and I'm not going to listen to an FBI report about something like this.
That expression does not happen to be along my way of thinking
and there was not much more to the conversation.
While I was talking with Mr. Adams, it was from a hotel room in Albany
where we were conducting hearings. We had in Felix Infleman Wood in the photographer in the Aussie Hiscate
and a friend of McLaughlin was present and two or three other people were in the room while I had this conversation with Mr. Adams.
With the exception Mr. Jenkins of a casual meeting with Mr. Adams
at the beginning of March at a hearing in the hearing room of the committee
that which he again invited me out to lunch
and which I declined. I have had, I believe, no further contacts with Mr. Adams.
I have not seen Mr. Stevens since the 17th of November
and I believe Sarah, this is about the substance of what you want me to tell you on this part of the examination.
Mr. Cole, approximately how many times did he talk to Mr. Adams
with respect to Major Carest and particularly with respect to the documents
to which he just referred, which were in existence
and which he was claim or say, shed light upon his coming strictly.
Now Sarah, I don't recall having discussed the police department back in with Mr. Adams
until this February 18th, February 19th incident.
I did very definitely discuss with Mr. Adams the fact that I had information that that for us as an Army officer
had defied the Army back in August that refused to answer questions from the Army and questions
and that there was documentation written as to that.
I am against documentation as a position of the Army.
Of course it was. They have never given it to us but I am sure it is there.
I am sure it is there and I am sure it is available to Mr. Adams.
Did you say you have met Mr. Adams with the previous investigation of the system and before you committee?
After I did not that I have to mention that Major Carest did take the Fifth Amendment before the committee.
They were newspaper stories about it and I believe Mr. Adams was directly and personally advised by Mr. Clark
as to exactly what had been transpired, exactly what had transpired.
And Mr. Adams had been invited to find the car I believe to be present at this session when Major Carest testified.
In fact I think Mr. Clark urged him to be there.
And of course he testified higher to his discharge.
He did. He testified and invoked the Fifth Amendment before I committee prior to the time the Army came from an honorable discharge.
Do you know whether or not Senator McCarthy ever talked to Mr. Adams about the police?
He said about the evidence you had against me.
I know he talked to him on a number of occasions sir and I know specifically that Senator McCarthy telephoned Mr. Adams.
I believe that Mr. Adams home on the night of February 2nd and told Mr. Adams just what he thought of the way in which Mr. Adams had handled the presca.
And you say that you know that Mr. Frank Carr and likewise spoke to Mr. Adams.
Yes sir and I know that Mr. Adams told Mr. Carr about some of the things which Senator McCarthy had told Mr. Adams about the way Mr. Adams had handled the presca.
Have you ever ascertained who is responsible for the promotion?
After it's mystical?
Sir and a long number of months now and we have never despite frequent repeated written, oral, telephonic, personal and every other kind of request, plea and demand.
And given that information and I doubt that we ever will be the way.
Have you ever been given information or two as responsible for his honorable discharge?
The only one we know of who dealt with his honorable discharge during that February 2nd period other than the twig of testimony is Mr. Adams.
And we don't know just how major a role Mr. Adams played in that whether he was acting under orders from someone else or not.
We have not been told and I'm sure no one can say that we haven't asked.
Now Mr. Cohn as a final question on direct examination, yes sir.
And with respect to yours and Senator McCarthy's charges against Mr. Stevens and the sad of us, is there any other fact now?
Are there any other facts?
When can your opinion shed light upon the truth or falsity of those charges that you now care to state to this committee?
As far as our answer and our account of what happens sir, I believe I've given you the substance.
I am sure that there are other incidents and other events which might shed light on this which I have overlooked or omitted because I knew they would be covered by others or on first examination.
But I'm sure that the York Forest Examination and that of Mr. Welch and the senators of all of the facts will come after.
Now let me make this statement and I don't make it be your benefit because you are perfectly aware of the role of the new role.
A witch I serve but for the benefit of those who cheerfully shall we face?
Mr. Cohn it is not a present thing to cross examine a witness and especially after one has conducted a direct examination.
It has I think I should say and also been a painful thing to cross examine the secretary of the army and the stratum and others.
And it is not a personal thing. It is purely official and in conformity was what I've deemed to be my duty.
And I do hope that those who are interested in those who are hearing and seeing these proceedings will understand that.
It's your duty sir and I'll do my best to answer your questions.
Mr. Cohn, before we end this statement, one single word seems to me that in fairness to those in the room and those who listen,
that the Council for the Committee should face a second time it's been said before that the names of those who were connected with the press discharge have been handed to the Council for the Committee days ago.
Handed to the Council, sir, and handed right back to the army and we've never seen.
No, you're quite wrong in that, Mr. O'erome. It was shuffled back and forth but it ends up in the position of my good and trusted friend Mr. Cohn.
Mr. Jenkins, I'll show it to us. We'll be very happy.
I believe that it's full in my position despite the fact that I tried to escape through responsibility.
It is marked confidential. It has not been opened by me. I see no purpose whatsoever in its remaining in my position and I have no intention of opening that envelope.
And I now tend to back Mr. Wilson, I do hope you will take it.
Yes, Mr. Senator, we've destroyed the New York administration. I have seen chairs of the previous.
Auditation by saying it's remaining in your hands until we have a chance to have an executive meeting to see what can be done if anything to get rid of its confidential status so that the country and the people may know who is responsible for major progress.
I'll expect you to violate the confidential order.
Now Mr. Cohn in order to channel the area of iron parry, let us again read the issue about which I desire to close the damage.
And that is that you and Senator McCarthy and Mr. Carp are charged by Mr. Stevens and by Mr. Adams.
Would you think improper means with them for the purposes of securing proper and so treatment for G. David Chai? You understand that, do you?
Yes sir.
The school now long has been known with Chai.
I have known him well sir, I would say for about two years.
Well how long have you known him?
I might have met him prior to that two-year period casually or around town. I have no death and erection recollection of it but might have happened.
I've been a viewer of me to New York City.
Yes sir. And who is Mr. Chai?
Well he's not, he's a native of the state of New York but he does spend a good deal of time in and around New York City.
What was the occasion of your meeting him and coming in contact with him? Mr. Cohn? Was it official or was it social or otherwise?
It was a luncheon arranged by a mutual friend.
Approximately two years ago. Yes sir.
Now Mr. Cohn has since that fine you and David Chai have been what we might call warm personal friends, have you not?
He is one of my many good friends, are you?
One of your many good friends and in all fairness Mr. Cohn is the fact that he is one of your best friends.
We all have our best friends, there's no criticism of you all that account.
Now of course not many our friends whom we love, I do.
Sir, he's a relationship between you and David Chai has been very close for the past ten years.
That's our he is one of the number of good friends I'm proud to have.
You have no name socially?
I have. This is in his home?
Yes.
Is this in your home?
Yes sir.
And you have perhaps double-dated together no reflection on you about that.
You have a single young man as we understand you.
We have an unknown.
Really widely known in New York City?
Yes sir.
So when you came to the McCarthy Committee I leave you say in January 1953?
Mr. Cohn came when?
Uh.
Mr. Chai.
Uh, he came two or three weeks thereafter I believe.
He came two or three weeks thereafter I believe.
Oh he said.
Now Mr. Cohn, Mr. Chai resigned.
I have positioned in New York City in order to come with the McCarthy Committee.